Friday 11th April 2014

Okay, so basically today's post will be a barrage of plots that I've produced over the past week. Lots of different ones too because I've been thinking about so much!

So first of all, back to the what to assume for the SFHs and how to constrain them debate. After speaking to Chris, he still wasn't convinced about Brooke's "assuming they're an average" idea, but we did agree that changing them anymore would mean that this work wasn't comparable to Kevin's. Also considering that the exponential decline of SF is a model that is commonly used in the literature, it must be on that is accepted. So we decided to keep it that way for now, but I have to draft a paragraph explaining what problems we've seen with it and how it could be changed in future. And that should placate people. Also testing how the SFR-mass diagram turns out assuming the SFHs we have at various cosmic times by having 10000 galaxies with randomly assigned values of [t,tau] (flat distribution between usual limits) gives: sfr_mass_diagram (the black line is the peng "main sequence" for present day, so obviously is not accurate at earlier times). I’m going to get that paragraph done by Monday before I go away next week.

Chris and I also spoke about the idea of the “amount of quenching that has occurred” - i.e. how many solar masses per year are not being formed due to quenching. So this is what that plot looks like by t~12.8 Gyr - obviously everything that quenched before about 10Gyr has the same drop in SFR irrespective of the rate of quenching because by that point each model galaxy has been completely quenching. We can then work out the average amount of quenching for a given cosmic time and look at how this changes with time PLOT. We can see that the amount of quenching increases with cosmic time - is this an environmental effect due to the ageing of the Universe? Did quenching become more common as the Universe aged?

I’ve also ran the code (which needs a name - that sounds like a job for when I’m sat round the pool on holiday when I have time to muse…) for the “non clean” galaxy samples, i.e. anything with 0.2 < pd, ps < 0.8. So here are those plots for RED SEQ, GV but the blue cloud plots are on my desktop - sorry! Including these I also ran the code for the mergers at the beginning of this week with Ncount > 10 for the merger and “nothing odd” question - also I reduced the number of these galaxies with nothing odd by picking a random sample of them the same length as the merger sample. I think this needs some improvement though with which parameters/constraints I use. Here’s the plots: MERGER and NON MERGER. Apparently mergers make things redder which would make sense if they were galaxies that had already had a merger years ago and the gas had been used up in the initial burst of SF but the galaxies we’re classing as mergers are either in the middle of the process or are about to merger and are currently very close together. Chris suggested using either the “stage of merger” classification from the Darg paper or using the measure of environment from the super Bamford table (Chris said it was called sigma but I can’t find anything like that in the table - I’m thinking the columns starting with C4_CLOSEST but I think that is something do with clusters. I might have to email Steven, but I’ll ask Brooke first and see if she knows). 

I’ve also been trying to produce some CMDs to see what the models predict for now (i.e. how well they reproduce the observed CMD) and for earlier times to see how they evolve. The problem is that the models seem to follow a very similar (narrow) track from the blue cloud to the red sequence. The red sequence seems to be very reasonably reproduced but the blue cloud and green valley not so much. I suppose this is to be expected because the models we’re using are quenching models rather than just a generic galaxy population model but even when you “rewind” the CMD to an earlier time to see what the models predict all the predictions are in a very narrow range of colours. Again this plot is on my desktop but I’ll upload it Monday morning. 

So lots of things to think about this week - I’m trying to get all of this down as I think about it into the paper - I’ve been putting stuff in the Appendix if I can’t figure out where to put it for now. Hopefully this’ll make things a lot more clearer in the future and will be really helpful when I get back from holiday and I start seriously thinking about tightening this paper up and submitting before we go observing! Wahoo!